An organization’s process of identifying and assessing risk is a continuous effort because types of threats change and they never completely disappear. The goal of risk management is to reduce these threats to an acceptable level. There are different levels of risk management. Organizations must properly manage risk to protect information and information systems. Risk management also helps to prevent legal actions, interruptions to operations, and safeguards the organizations’ reputations.
Risk management is the identification, evaluation, and prioritization of risks. Organizations manage risk in one of four ways. Each may be an appropriate choice, depending on the circumstances and type of risk in question:

·         Avoidance (Elimination) - Risk avoidance is the complete removal or elimination of risk from a specific threat. For example, avoiding or eliminating the threat of users sharing or misusing passwords could involve implementing a fingerprint authentication system on all user workstations.

·         Mitigation (Reduction) - Risk mitigation involves implementing controls that allow the organization to continue to perform an activity while using mechanisms to reduce the risk from a particular threat. An organization could also increase its technical controls and network oversight to reduce risk from operational threats.

·         Transfer- Organizations can transfer risk from specific threats. The financial risk of a threat can be managed by purchasing an insurance policy, or hiring a contractor to deal with specific threats.

·         Accept- Accepting risk involves the identification of the threats but not implementing mitigation processes only after a conscious decision has been made to do so. The conscious decision is informed by analyzing the various components of the risk before proceeding.